heroku link: http://blooming-atoll-4451.herokuapp.com/users/sign_in

5/9/2014

So this was a fun assignment.  Unfortunately, I couldn't get my twitter gem up and running, but I did end up using blower.IO for my heroku addon.  IMPORTANT: blower.IO is limited to 30 texts per month (beta). When testing, please don't go nuts!  You can test it with a valid phonenumber within the app under "New Moods". Whenever a new mood is added, you'll get a text message with the name of the mood.  As a reminder:

CSS: on most pages
Javascript/jQuery: on the navbar (a tooltip shows up when you hover over a link). Can be found in app/assets/javascripts/application.js
Gem: Devise (working) docs: , 
tweetstream/twitter(broken, but not affecting the app) docs: https://github.com/plataformatec/devise
Heroku addon: Blower.IO (see above) docs: https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/blowerio#using-with-ruby
Database: Moods belong to user, Quotes belong to moods
Validations: Can be found in the moods model.
Queries: See very bottom of readme.

Closing remarks:
With the twitter gem not working, unfortunately my app isn't quite "complete".  The idea was to have users be capable of syncing up their twitter to this app, and then I monitor their included moods and text them if they seem upset/sad/frustrated/angry/happy/excited/studying/ whatever mood they choose! I realized my first limitation when it came to texting.  Being limited to only 30 texts per month kind of limits the functionality of my app.  Then, there was the issue with the tweetstream/twitter gem.  Apparently, it doesn't play nice with rails.  There are some fixes, but nothing I could figure out in time for submission.  Aside from that, this was pretty smooth sailing.  Blower.IO went up in a snap and was great! I definitely plan on continuing with rails development and (more specifically) I'm really excited to do some ruby scripting this summer.  I already have a few projects lined up (including finishing this app!).  

Thanks for a great semester and have a nice summer!


4/20/2014

Added jQuery to application (app/assets/javascripts/application.js).  It adds a hover tool-tip text (yet to be css'd) element
to links on the main navbar.


4/7/2014

New app, lots of updates.  The purpose of this app is to add as a mood monitor for social media.  

This app accepts users and allows them to set up any moods they feel like with different keywords associated with the moods.

For databases: I currently have 3 different databases, although I may add a fourth in the future (I'll keep you posted!).
There is currently a Users database which accepts Username, Password and email.  There is also a Moods database which accepts Feelings (moods)
and Adjectives(which describe those moods).  Moods are attached to a User. Lastly, there is a quotes database which is attached to Moods and
accepts moods and quotes.

For gems: Using devise for user authentication. Also plan on using tweetstream, although it is not yet implemented (again, keep you posted).

For validations: I added 4 different validations to moods.  There is a regex, to make sure no numbers are added to feelings/adjectives,
it is required that both fields are filled out, it is required that moods be between 3 and 20 characters in length and it is required that
feelings be unique. 

For heroku addons: Using either Blower.io or TelAPI for sms messaging.

For queries: My first query is in moods_controller.rb. I alphabetically ordered the returned feelings for the moods index. 
The second query (where) is under moods_controller as well.  Clicking on a mood shows the adjectives and associated quotes.
The third query is a limit query attached to the quotes to limit them to the 3 most recently added so as not to overwhelm the page with text.
The fourth query, order, is on the quotes index page (app/views/quotes/index.html.erb).  I ordered the options alphabetically here as well.